docs(mcp): add docs for mcp (#379)
googleapis/genai-toolbox: docs/en/how-to/connect_via_mcp.md

---
title: "Connect via MCP Client"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: >
  How to connect to Toolbox from a MCP Client.
---

## Toolbox SDKs vs Model Context Protocol (MCP)

> Toolbox now supports connect via both our native Toolbox SDKs and via [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](include link). However, Toolbox as several features which are not supported in the MCP specification (such as Authenticated Parameters and Authorized invocation). 

Reviewer: Update link

> Toolbox now supports connect via both our native Toolbox SDKs and via [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](include link). However, Toolbox as several features which are not supported in the MCP specification (such as Authenticated Parameters and Authorized invocation). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Toolbox now supports connections via both the native Toolbox SDKs and via [Model Context Protocol (MCP)](include link). However, Toolbox as several features which are not supported in the MCP specification (such as Authenticated Parameters and Authorized invocation). 
```

We recommend using the native SDKs over MCP clients to leverage these features. The native SDKs can be combined with MCP clients in many cases. 

### Protocol Versions
Toolbox currently supports the following versions of MCP specification:

> * 2024-11-05

Reviewer: nit: add link to spec

---
title: "Connect via MCP Client"
type: docs
weight: 1
description: >
  How to connect to Toolbox from MCP Client.
---

## Toolbox support for MCP
To ensure a seamless compatibility between MCP and Toolbox, we provide a native
integration of MCP.

### Protocol Versions
Toolbox currently supports the following versions of MCP specification:
* 2024-11-05

> ### What do we not support with Toolbox MCP
> There are certain features within the MCP specification that we are not/not yet
> supporting:
> * Auth: There are no auth implementation in the `2024-11-05` specification.
> * Toolsets: MCP does not have the concept of toolset. Hence, all tools are
>   automatically loaded when using Toolbox with MCP.
> * Notifications: We do not provide list changed notifications for Tools.
> * Optional Parameters: We have found that LLM performs better without optional
>   parameter, hence it is not currently supported in the beta version of Toolbox.
>   All parameters are treated as required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Unavailable features when using MCP
Toolbox has several features that are not yet supported in the MCP specification:
* **AuthZ/AuthN:** There are no auth implementation in the `2024-11-05` specification. This includes:
  * Authenticated Parameters
  * Authorized Invocations 
* **Toolsets**: MCP does not have the concept of toolset. Hence, all tools are automatically loaded when using Toolbox with MCP.
* **Notifications:** Currently, editing Toolbox Tools requires a server restart. Clients should reload tools on disconnect to get the latest version. 
```
